blog: Spring Cleaning in Express.js (#1902)
expressjs/expressjs.com: _posts/2025-05-15-express-cleanup-legacy-packages.md

---
title: "Spring Cleaning in Express.js: Deprecations and the Path Ahead"
tags: news
author: Express Technical Committee
description: As part of a broader effort to modernize and streamline Express.js, we’ve deprecated several outdated packages including csurf, connect-multiparty, and path-match. Learn why we made these changes and what it means for the future of the framework.
---

As Express.js continues to power web applications across the world, it's important that we maintain a clean, reliable, and modern codebase. In that spirit, we've done a bit of spring cleaning.

> Over the past few weeks, we've evaluated legacy packages within the Express.js ecosystem—some of which have become outdated, unmaintained, or misaligned with modern best practices. As a result, we’ve officially deprecated several of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over the past few weeks, we've evaluated legacy packages within the Express.js ecosystem — some of which have become outdated, unmaintained, or misaligned with modern best practices. As a result, we’ve officially deprecated several of them.
```

I am pretty sure the recommended style for emdash is to put spaces around them. Oddly enough this nitpick is one I have commented on in two recent PRs. Maybe that is the AP style guide or something and it is like double or single spaces after a sentence?

Author: Happy with with spaces on both sides, make it easier to read :+1:

- [`csurf`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/csurf): A CSRF middleware that’s long been difficult to maintain and is better handled today through frameworks or custom implementations that align with your architecture.
- [`connect-multiparty`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/connect-multiparty): A multipart form-data parser that relies on deprecated libraries and hasn’t aged well.
- [`path-match`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/path-match): A route-matching utility that has been superseded by more modern and maintained alternatives.

Each of these packages was originally created to solve real problems—but time has moved on, and the ecosystem has evolved.

## 🤔 Why This Matters

Maintaining deprecated or inactive dependencies introduces technical debt and security risk. By formally deprecating these packages, we:

- Encourage developers to adopt better-maintained and more secure solutions.
- Reduce confusion around which tools are actively supported by Express.
- Focus our efforts on modernizing the core and surrounding ecosystem.

## 🗂️ What You Should Do

If your application depends on any of these packages, now is a great time to look for alternatives. For instance:

> - Consider modern CSRF protection strategies tied to your specific backend or framework.

Reviewer: I feel like folks will read this line and ask "but my framework is express? what should I use with express?".  I know the idea is to not take an opinion, but maybe we could link to the [npm search page for other csrf libraries](https://www.npmjs.com/search?q=csurf)? I think the best replacement one is in that list at least (`csrf-csrf`)? Because the other option is our recommendation is "migrate to fastify, they have this correctly implemented", which is also valid but I doubt what folks come to the express blog to hear.

Author: I think that this solves the issue a059d9a. I prefer not recommending a library unless we are clear on that "project recommendation".

> - Consider modern CSRF protection strategies tied to your specific backend or framework.

Author: ```suggestion
- Consider finding a modern CSRF protection strategy on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/search?q=csurf) that aligns with your specific needs.
```
